Hi and we'll to this lecture on dynamic typing versus static typing.
Now in order to understand this I'm going to start by looking at what static typing is.
So many languages are statically typed languages like Java C++ C sharp swift and many others are statically
typed.
So let's look at Java as an example in this piece of code.
We have string my VAR equals.
Hello.
Now there's a few things happening here.
One is that we have a variable name just like we have in Python.
That's no different what is different though is that we have a data type that we're associating with
the variable name the data type is a string.
And then lastly we have a value a string literal hello that we're assigning to my VA.
So now what's happening is very similar to what happens with Python.
That string literal Hello gets created in memory has an object had some memory address it has a data
type of string it has a value.
Hello and the memory address.
What's a little bit different is that my VAR is a variable but it is a variable of type string we have
associated the data type with the variable and then that variable becomes a reference to that memory
address just like we have in Python.
So that's really the crux of the difference between Python and a statically typed language like Java.
The data type is associated with the variable name.
So if we write some code later on like my VAR equals 10.
While this isn't going to work it's not going to work because my VAR was declared as a string and 10
is an integer it's not a type that is compatible with string.
So that won't work.
We can harvest say later on in our code.
My var equals ABC right.
The string literal ABC that's perfectly fine because while ABC is a string.
So that's OK.
Right.
So that's really the main difference.
Now Python is dynamically typed.
So the main difference if we look at this piece of Python code here is that we are not specifying that
my VAR is of type string.
My var is just a reference.
Nothing more to an object that object currently happens to be a string object.
The value of hello.
But the type is not attached to my arm.
So just like we've seen before my VAR is a reference to the string object in memory.
Later on if we say my articles 10 that's perfectly legal.
All we're doing is that we are creating an object in memory an integer object with value 10 and we are
changing the reference of my VAR to point to that integer.
So in effect we kind of think that the type of my var has changed.
Well my VAR never had a type to start off with my VAR was just a reference.
What has changed is the type of the object that my VAR was pointing to.
Right.
So we can use the built in type function to determine the type of the object currently referenced by
a variable but that can change over time.
Remember Python type variables do not have an inherent static type so when we call Type of my Python
will look up the object that my VAR is referencing currently right that it's pointing to and it will
return the type of that object.
So let's take a look at some code and see how that works.
All right.
So let's take a look at this very quickly.
Let's start with a variable aid and let's make it equal to a string.
So remember a now is a reference to a string object in memory has a memory address and so on.
Now we can look at the type of aid and we get that it's a string.
Now it's not really the type of a.
Keep that in mind.
What it really is it's the type of the object that is referencing.
So if later we change a reference to something else maybe we change it to an integer.
Now we can look at the type of a and we see that the type is now an integer.
Maybe we change it to something else maybe.
And this is something we'll cover later we'll change it to let's say a lambda expression.
Right.
So basically it's a function is a function right.
We can call a value of 2 is going to return to square because X is the parameter that has a value of
2.
So we get four.
And we can look at the type of a and a is a function right.
If a is equal to three plus four J which is not a complex number we can look at the type of a and it
tells us that it's a complex number and so on.
Every time we've simply changed the reference of a to a different object and type we'll return the type
of that object in memory.
So quite straightforward and that's what a dynamically typed language is.
All right I'll see you in the next video.